---
title: Our users
description: Who are the key users of the "Make changes..." service?
date: 2020-12-01
---

## Trusts

The person responsible for submitting the application. Their role varies depending on the trust.

They don't submit change applications often and it's not part of their usual workflow.

They often call on the RSC office to get support with their application.

Time is a huge priority. They're time poor and want things to take up as little of their time as possible.

### Needs

I need to:
* know if I have to submit a significant change
* notify DfE about a significant change 
* know what I have to do
* know how long the process takes 
* know what information to provide and what detail is needed
* be able to fill in the application 

### Pain points

* I don't know when I do/don't need to submit an application 
* I don't know how long the processes is so I can't plan. Or, it takes so long my application is at risk of being retrospective
* The form is really difficult, and I don't know what level of information to provide or what you really need from me
* I'm confused and don't know why I have to submit this 

### Quotes

> “As an experienced CEO I didn't have a clue who to go to - and I sit on HTB.”

> “We haven’t got time to read - I know there’s the legal side [...]- but I think what do we need to do?”

> “I suppose for us its about knowing what we’ve got to do beforehand, the timescale that we’ve got to do it, then what we’ve got to get together to put in the application and when we get the decision.”

> “[We want to] know the process from your end. Vicky Beer's list has a priority against it and [we want to] understand the system.”

> “Let me tell you, sort that ruddy form out! It was a nightmare to fill in, we had boxes here we couldn’t cut and paste, words appearing from nowhere. You needed an A-Level in IT.”

## Delivery officers

They work with the trusts to help them with their application. Once it's submitted, they review the information, pass it to anyone relevant internally, and fill out the template for the RSC.

Each region has a slightly different process and way of working with the RSC.

Their relationships with the trusts are very reassuring for the trusts. 

### Needs

* I need all the information from trusts to that I can fill out the template for the RSC 
* I need to know all the information from trusts so that I can make my recommendations based on evidence 

### Pain points

* Trusts not including all the necessary information in their application and DOs have to go back and ask for things, extending timelines and causing frustrations 
* Processing retrospective applications 

### Communication breakdown

* Trusts don't care about their application and it's a slapdash effort or they just don't bother to do it 
* Assume the RSCs need everything that they collect from trusts

### Quotes

> “The amount of retrospective applications we get, and the applications with ludicrous [spelling and grammar].”

> “All we really need is that clear synopsis of what this change is, why they believe it's required (particularly if it’s something the LA have requested) and then it's about the consultation, clarity that they've competed it in the correct way, and who they've consulted with... That’s pretty much it, everything else we can do.”

> “We really want to be able to see in the rationale that they've really thought about the implications of removing that provision and been able to evidence that there isn’t going to be a huge impact on the area if it was removed.”

> “A significant change is... any significant change to an academy. It changes the phase or the size of the academy.”

## Regional schools commissioners (RSC)

They make decisions based on their view of the whole area.

They decide which applications go to HTB and use HTB for its advice and input.

They already have existing relationships with lots of trusts and academies and this relationship is important for the trusts. 

### Needs

I need to know:
* about planned significant changes so I can ensure they are in the best interest of the area as a whole 
* about planned significant changes so that I can make sure trusts are not doing anything that will put them at risk
* the LA's stance on the changes so that I can make an informed choice 

### Pain points

* Potentially approving applications which the LA are opposed to, and having to maintain those relationships 
* Very time poor with lots of conflicting priorities 
* Each region works differently and has their own processes and ways of making decisions.

### Quotes

> “My role is not to stop academies doing things, my role is more to make sure they've thought through the impact and the consequences and that includes for pupils. My job is to make sure the school has thought through the impact and has a reasonable plan.”

> “Have they properly thought about the impact of the change they're proposing – on their finances, questioning their assumptions. […] What is the staffing model, have you properly thought about how you're going to fund this?”

> “I would have no idea how other RSCs decide on what goes to HTB and what doesn't. It'd be good to get some consistency on that.”

> “We often use [HTB] as a hook to talk [to trusts] about something else. For example, you've asked to close your 6th form that's because your pupil numbers are falling, that's because you're not a good enough school with a good enough reputation so we'd suggest you join [XYZ]. So we'll use it as a discussion at HTB about what else is going on at that trust. But it's not part of the decision.”

## Local authorities (LA)

The LA hold the public purse and look after the best interests of the area. There’s an interdependency between DfE, Trusts and the LA and the LA often don’t feel consulted, valued, or included.

They make sure every child in the area has a place to go to school.

They also own a lot of the land and are key stakeholders.

### Needs

I need to:
* be involved in changes so that I can ensure the right things are happening for the area 
* know what changes are happening so that I can plan the provision for the area

### Pain points

* Do not feel as involved as they should be in the decision making process
* Trusts not making applications, so the LA doesn’t know how many places there are 
* Do not feel supported by DfE.

### Quotes

> “We should be seen and treated as a partner of the DfE.”

> “Nobody seems to care what Local Authorities think.”

> "There is a triangle of: Trust, LA, DfE…  if it was more equally weighted it would give better results."

> “Trusts are forthcoming with changes we will support, but perhaps not so much the controversial ones, which really are the ones we need to see.”

> "It's guidance that they talk to the local authority, they don't *have* to. So they don't."

---

## Needs vs Pains

| **Informational needs**                                                                 |        | **Relational pain points**                                                                              |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| I need to know what changes are happening so that I can plan the provision for the area | **<>** | Do not feel as involved as they should be in the decision making process                                |
| I need all the information from trusts to that I can fill out the template for the RSC  | **<>** | Trusts don't care about their application and it's a slapdash effort or they just don't bother to do it |

---

Georgie Rastall, User Researcher